---
layout: post
title:  "My 5inch quad"
lang: en
tags: [en, 6s, freestyle, quad, fpv, diy, analog, Walksnail, 5inch, gps, gps-rescue, PINIO]
category: tutorial
published: false
---

notes on my analog and Walksnail 5inch builds. in challenging environments where GPS can be spoofed and elrs jammed, the failsafe and gps rescue must be separated to prevent *the flyaway*. failsafe stage 2 must be set to drop, and gps rescue activated from a button on the radio manually.

## components

- props [GEMFAN Vannystyle 5136-3 Propellers](https://geprc.com/product/gemfan-vannystyle-5136-3-propellers/) pitch 3.6

## wiring

analog
```
uart1 - vtx (irc tramp)
uart2 - ELRS (serial rx)
uart4 - Bluetooth (msp)
uart5, SCL(T3), SDA(R3) - GPS
```

video switcher PWM to LED_STRIP. FPV camera fully is wired to the switcher VIDEO1, VIDEO2 is the runcam. runcam is powered from +5V, rx to FCs R1 (softserial 1).  swither is powered from the camera's 5V.

## assembly (analog and Walksnail)

- add [TVS diode](https://oscarliang.com/using-tvs-diode-in-fpv-drone/) to the battery input on th ESC in addition to the capacitor. use solid state capacitor 470uF 35V, hard mount it (isolated) to the frame but connect to the PDB/ESC using wires, not it's leads (otherwise the leads will rip themselves out of the capacitor in a crash).
- install the Walksnail VTX, do **not** hard mount it to the frame, use rubber dampers and zip ties or a 3D-printed mount. otherwise the VTX casing will tear itself apart during a crash. keep the VTX case and antenna's shield isolated from the frame.
- solder VTX to FC's UART1 (or any other UART by default used by VTX) pins, but power it from +9v. measure the voltage on the 5V pad if there is no 9V pad on the FC, a FC had power on VTX pads marked 5V on the board but the pad was actually providing 9V.
- solder GPS module to the FC's default GPS UART, also solder SCL and SDA pins to the FC's I2C bus pins to connect the magnetometer. if the only free UART rx is used for ESC telemetry, set `Current meter source` to `onboard ADC` and set `ESC_SENSOR` to off in betaflight Power & Battery tab to free the UART. in Ports, set the UART's sensor to GPS, rate to 57600. place the GPS module as far away from digital VTX antennas as possible, inverse square law applies to RF interference.
- connect Walksnail VTX and DVR with the jumper cable (white dot aligns with the white wire, white wires are facing the side with u.fl connectors), flash them and the goggles with the same latest firmware https://caddxfpv.com/pages/download-center
  - remove the jumper cable
- upload [custom high resolution font](https://sneaky-fpv.gitbook.io/hd-osd-and-tools) to the goggles (Betaflight custom OSD font should not be called BTFL, otherwise Walksnail goggles will freeze and require restart when playing back OSD with DVR)
  - fonts
    - third party [720p 1080p](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1z4YXnn5RuUd2dZ7pjjoM5S6zSKITyb17) and [2.7k 4k](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SFRYDwn_jhjZBqyDTO83O32kPZFMWBhT). `_24` suffix is for 720p, `_36` is for 1080p, `_40p` is for 2.7k, `_60p` is for 4k resolution.
    - another font for [1080p](https://github.com/fpv-wtf/msp-osd/blob/main/fonts/font_btfl.png) and [720p](https://github.com/fpv-wtf/msp-osd/blob/main/fonts/font_btfl_hd.png)
    - [other fonts](https://github.com/fpv-wtf/msp-osd?tab=readme-ov-file#suggested-third-party-fonts)
    - original: https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0036/3921/4169/files/FC_OSD_Font_Update.rar?v=1717745825
  - copy `font_update.ini` (duplicate sections to support switching between multiple FC systems) and the png files to the sd card and boot the goggles
  - manually set the font and the FC type in the goggles menu
- bind the goggles to the VTX
- add a layer of conformal coating after soldering all the wires. add more coating on the connectors after plugging them in. I used `Kafuter K-705`, but it's viscosity is too high so it makes a thick layer when spread on a PCB. Use it for sealing where a thick layer is required: holes on the VTX case, ESC heatsink. `P-1025` forms a thinner layer, use it on the FC PCB to be able to resolder pads more easily later. apply the coating to all the electronic boards (including all the edges of multilayer PCBs), all JST SH connectors and gaps on the VTX and camera casing. naturally, **leave out** the barometer chip on the FC (and the barometer on the GPS module like M10DQ), and be careful not to leak the compound onto the camera sensor. conformal coating **does not affect heat dissipation** of the ICs on the FC and ESCs, because it mainly happens through the PCB and the wires.
- use `B-7000` to secure the antenna post
- add a rubber plug to the USB C port.
- (optional) add copper foil shielding covered with insulation tape to the cables (camera, GPS, VTX, RX).
- apply blue `Loctite-243` onto last threads of all _screws_ except those that
  - hold the camera
  - hold the top plate
- all wires must have some slack. multiple wires must be twisted together
- for analog, do not use caddx ratel2 camera ([high latency problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJZcBEc3q8I)), use runcam nano2 1.8mm (f/1.2, 700TVL) or Runcam Racer Nano4 (1200 TVL, 160 degrees)

## radio

- ch5 aux1 SB inverted (change the weight(mixes) to -100%) - right 3-pos: arm (high) - 
- ch6 aux2 SA inverted (change the weight(mixes) to -100%)  - left 3-pos: air (low) / acro / angle(high)
- ch7 aux3 SC - left momentary sw - turtle mode
- ch8 aux4 S2 - VTX power adjustment
- ch9 aux5 SD - right momentary sw - beeper
- ch10 aux6 S1 - OSD profile switching 
- ch11 aux7 sw5 2pos - Runcam/FPV cam switch
- ch12 SW1 2pos (aux8) SW1 failsafe 1100-1250, SW2 gps rescue 1300-1400, SW3 alt hold + pos hold 1500-1600.
SW1, SW2, SW3 are in group 1.

 - in special functions:
  L17 down adjust global variable G2 to -600,
   L18 down adjust global variable G2 to -300,
    L19 down adjust global variable G2 to 100,
    L20 down adjust global variable G2 to -1024,
 
 - in logical switches:
   L17 SW2up AND SW3up AND SWITCH SW1down,
   L18 SW1up AND SW3up AND SWITCH SW2down,
   L19 SW1up AND SW2up AND SWITCH SW3down,
   L20 SW1up AND SW2up AND SWITCH SW3up,
 - in mixes: CH12 is set to G2

## ESCs (Bluejay)
- props in
-  J-H-15 - Bluejay, 0.21.0, 48kHz
- use https://esc-configurator.com or [build the same app locally]({% post_url 2025-11-23-bf-local %}) to [flash and setup](https://oscarliang.com/bluejay-blheli-s/) latest Bluejay firmware to the ESCs
  - 48kHz PWM 
  - startup boost min 1010, max 1020
  - temperature protection Disabled
  - force EDT arm OFF
  - rampup x9
  - motor timing 22.5 degrees
- readjust motors direction, `set yaw_motors_reversed = ON` if some of the motors are being reversed (props out)
- beep strength and beacon strength must not be set too low, it will cause TELEM_DSHOT error at startup


## betaflight


- compile [the Betaflight Configurator app](https://app.betaflight.com/) [locally]({% post_url 2025-11-23-bf-local %})
  - `make GEPRCF722_BT_HD_V3 EXTRA_FLAGS="-D'RELEASE_NAME=2025.12.0-RC2' -DCLOUD_BUILD -DUSE_ACRO_TRAINER -DUSE_ALTITUDE_HOLD -DUSE_DSHOT -DUSE_GPS -DUSE_GPS_PLUS_CODES -DUSE_LED_STRIP -DUSE_MAG -DUSE_OSD -DUSE_OSD_SD -DUSE_PINIO -DUSE_POSITION_HOLD -DUSE_SERIALRX -DUSE_SERIALRX_CRSF -DUSE_TELEMETRY -DUSE_TELEMETRY_CRSF -DUSE_VTX -DUSE_SERVOS"`
- check that FC is working, save the output of `dump` and `diff all showdefaults` to separate files
- check the current version and the board name with `version`
- for cloud builds:
  - `status` to find BUILD_KEY
  - `curl https://build.betaflight.com/api/builds/[BUILD KEY]/json | tee factory.json | jq` to find/save the features enabled in the current firmware. also `curl https://build.betaflight.com/api/builds/[BUILD KEY]/log`. the firmware itself is at `/hex`
- [build]({% post_url 2025-11-23-bf-local %}) the firmware locally, in CLI run `bl` to enter the bootloader mode and then flash the flight controller, adding features `Altitude Hold`, `Position Hold`, `Magnetometers`, and custom defines for the particular magnetometer microchip used, like `MAG MAG_QMC5883`
- restore parts of the diff as needed (for instance, PID and filter settings of profile0)
- disable location-related information in the ELRS telemetry:
  - ```
    set telemetry_disabled_altitude = ON
    set telemetry_disabled_lat_long = ON
    set telemetry_disabled_ground_speed = ON
    set telemetry_disabled_heading = ON
    save
    ```
- configure betaflight (issue `save` before leaving the CLI):

  - `set crash_recovery = DISARM` - self-explanatory, very helpful.
  - Power & Battery tab. [calibrate](https://oscarliang.com/current-sensor-calibration/) the voltage and amperage using an external multimeter.
  - calibrate the accelerometer. fly in angle mode and use [the stick commands](https://oscarliang.com/stick-commands/) to adjust trim: disarm, throttle up with yaw in the center and use the right stick to add roll or pitch trim iteratively with test flights until the quad hovers level.
  - if the GPS module also has a barometer that conflicts with the barometer on the flight controller (would manifest like this: the FC won't boot again after being powered on by USB only which doesn't power the GPS module and the FC's onboard barometer, and then saving changes to the FC's configuration), disable automatic barometer detection by `set baro_hardware = BMP280`
  - check [the datasheet for the magnetometer chip](https://datasheet.lcsc.com/szlcsc/QST-QMC5883L-TR_C192585.pdf) for its XYZ axis alignment, dry fit the GPS module on the drone frame with magnetometer axes pointing in the same directions as the [the default Betaflight directions](https://betaflight.com/docs/wiki/guides/current/Magnetometer), then set the actual installed orientation difference with in the CLI like
    ```
    set mag_hardware = QMC5883
    set align_mag = CUSTOM
    set mag_align_roll = 0
    set mag_align_pitch = 2150
    set mag_align_yaw = 0
    ```
    the rotation is centered around the dot on the microchip, so the pitch 215 means that the magnetometer chip was rotated (from the default alignment for the Betaflight, when X axis is pointing forward, Y axis is pointing to the left and Z axis is pointing up) 215 degrees counter-clockwise (pitch up rotation) around the dot on the chip on the Y axis when looking from the right side of the drone. pitch down rotation would be a negative value increasing from -360. might temporary enable debugging for `MAG_CALIB` in the blackbox tab to check the alignment on the sensors tab (`debug` checkbox). the axis pointing to the magnetic North will have the highest value.
  - find the correct [magnetic declination value for the region](https://www.magnetic-declination.com/), then set it in CLI like `set mag_declination = xxx` and `save`
  - calibrate the magnetometer
    - make note of the current values using `get mag`
    - _enter_ the calibration mode using stick commands: pitch low with roll centered, throttle high and yaw fully right
      - two short beeps would confirm entering the calibration mode
    - rotate the drone in any direction at a rate exceeding 350 deg/s to _begin_ the calibration
      - the beeper will beep fast 7 times, blue LED on the FC will go solid
    - rotate the drone (FC) around all 3 axes for 30 seconds
      - two long beeps - failure
      - three medium beeps - success. check with `get mag`
  - connect the controller and set up the modes:
    - arm set to high (set the mix weight to -100 in EdgeTX to invert the channel if needed)
      - also add `OR` with turtle mode channel to this mode, to bypass the need to rearm in turtle mode
    - angle, acro, default (AIR mode)
    - beeper
    - turtle mode
    - failsafe
    - gps rescue
  - set up the `stage 1` failsafe. it is needed to get the drone into a level flight with a bit of recovery climb. for instance (numbering here starts from 0, 0-3 are the stick input channels): throttle (channel 4) set 1300, arm (channel 5) hold, angle mode (channel 6) set 2000
    ```
    # rxfail
    rxfail 3 s 1300
    rxfail 5 s 2000
    save
    ```
  - set up the `stage 2` failsafe, `failsafe_procedure = GPS-RESCUE`. auto-land is more problematic, because it's uncontrollable, does not account for the wind, and the motors will still be spinning for some time after landing until `failsafe_landing_time` runs out. it will disarm itself after `failsafe_landing_time` regardless it has landed or not, it will be midair if `failsafe_throttle` is not low enough. landing on a hard even surface is not a problem, and at 1100 throttle (1000 is idle and around 1275 is hover) it even should be enough for `crash_recovery` to disarm the drone. but it will be a problem if landing on uneven softer surface like grass, plus props being entangled in it will melt the prop's shafts and unwind the nuts even on idle speed. the same will happen if the drone bounce and flip while autolanding on a relatively hard surface, but the impact is not hard enough for `crash_recovery` to disarm it.

  - set up gps return to home (edit the altitude):

    ```
    set failsafe_delay = 15
    set failsafe_throttle_low_delay = 300
    set failsafe_procedure = GPS-RESCUE
    set gps_ublox_use_galileo = ON
    set gps_set_home_point_once = ON
    set gps_rescue_alt_mode = FIXED_ALT
    set gps_rescue_return_alt = 15
    set gps_rescue_ascend_rate = 1000
    set gps_rescue_ground_speed = 1500
    set gps_rescue_max_angle = 50
    set gps_rescue_descent_dist = 10
    set gps_rescue_min_sats = 6

    set failsafe_landing_time = 60
    set failsafe_throttle = 1100

    save
    ```
  - modes
    ```
    aux 0 0 0 1900 2100 0 0
    aux 1 0 2 1900 2100 0 0
    aux 2 1 1 1900 2100 0 0
    aux 3 3 7 1500 1600 0 0
    aux 4 27 7 1100 1275 0 0
    aux 5 11 7 1500 1600 0 0
    aux 6 46 7 1300 1400 0 0
    aux 7 13 4 1700 2100 0 0
    aux 8 28 1 900 1100 0 0
    aux 9 35 2 1925 2100 0 0
    ```

  - load `RC_LINK` preset for the corresponding mode, for example, ELRS 150Hz (options:freestyle, serial, single cell)
  - in Motors tab, turn on bidirectional DShot, set highest protocol that is supported by the ESCs:

    ```
    set dshot_bidir = ON
    set motor_pwm_protocol = DSHOT600
    set dshot_edt = ON
    set bat_capacity = 1050
    set vbat_max_cell_voltage = 430
    set vbat_full_cell_voltage = 410
    set vbat_min_cell_voltage = 330
    set vbat_warning_cell_voltage = 350
    set baro_hardware = DPS310
    set motor_poles = 14

    save
    ```


  - **props off**, check that [Extended DSHOT Telemetry](https://github.com/bird-sanctuary/bluejay/wiki/Setup#extended-dshot-telemetry---edt) is working:

    ```
    dshotprog 255 13
    motor 255 1060
    dshot_telemetry_info
    ```

  - in PID profile, set [dynamic idle depending on the propeller parameters](https://oscarliang.com/pid-filter-tuning-blackbox/#Anti-Gravity-Gains), anti-gravity, voltage sag compensation (depends on `vbat_warning_cell_voltage`), [thrust linearization](https://oscarliang.com/fpv-drone-tuning/#Thrust-Linearization):

    ```
    set dyn_idle_min_rpm = 40
    set vbat_sag_compensation = 100
    set thrust_linear = 20
    set anti_gravity_gain = 110
    set small_angle = 180
    save
    ```

  - `set motor_output_limit = 90` to [avoid burning the ESCs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQJ3yGproOg)

  - configure the blackbox for minimum logging of gyro data to use with [the Gyroflow](https://github.com/gyroflow/gyroflow) later. gyroflow Walksnail lens profile is [here](https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0036/3921/4169/files/Walksnail_Camera_Lens_Gyroflow_File.zip?v=1726298969). [gyroflow walksnail howto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYLYIYHWS4). download combined logs using download function in betaflight configurator, not removable media mode (and then erase the flash):
    ```
    set blackbox_mode = NORMAL
    set blackbox_sample_rate = 1/16
    set blackbox_disable_pids = ON
    set blackbox_disable_rc = ON
    set blackbox_disable_setpoint = ON
    set blackbox_disable_bat = ON
    set blackbox_disable_mag = ON
    set blackbox_disable_alt = ON
    set blackbox_disable_rssi = ON
    set blackbox_disable_debug = ON
    set blackbox_disable_motors = ON
    set blackbox_disable_gps = ON
    save
    ```
  - set up the OSD
    ```
    set osd_units = METRIC
    set osd_warn_bitmask = 397311
    set osd_rssi_alarm = 20
    set osd_link_quality_alarm = 80
    set osd_rssi_dbm_alarm = -90
    set osd_rsnr_alarm = 4
    set osd_cap_alarm = 1050
    set osd_alt_alarm = 120
    set osd_distance_alarm = 0
    set osd_esc_temp_alarm = 0
    set osd_esc_rpm_alarm = -1
    set osd_esc_current_alarm = -1
    set osd_core_temp_alarm = 70
    set osd_ah_max_pit = 20
    set osd_ah_max_rol = 40
    set osd_ah_invert = OFF
    set osd_logo_on_arming = OFF
    set osd_logo_on_arming_duration = 5
    set osd_arming_logo = 0
    set osd_tim1 = 2560
    set osd_tim2 = 2561
    set osd_vbat_pos = 6611
    set osd_rssi_pos = 6592
    set osd_link_quality_pos = 6629
    set osd_link_tx_power_pos = 6597
    set osd_rssi_dbm_pos = 6624
    set osd_rsnr_pos = 448
    set osd_tim_1_pos = 417
    set osd_tim_2_pos = 14840
    set osd_remaining_time_estimate_pos = 6585
    set osd_flymode_pos = 6643
    set osd_anti_gravity_pos = 234
    set osd_g_force_pos = 375
    set osd_throttle_pos = 6579
    set osd_vtx_channel_pos = 4128
    set osd_crosshairs_pos = 237
    set osd_ah_sbar_pos = 238
    set osd_ah_pos = 110
    set osd_current_pos = 6635
    set osd_mah_drawn_pos = 6617
    set osd_wh_drawn_pos = 234
    set osd_motor_diag_pos = 234
    set osd_craft_name_pos = 394
    set osd_pilot_name_pos = 234
    set osd_gps_speed_pos = 4323
    set osd_gps_lon_pos = 17
    set osd_gps_lat_pos = 0
    set osd_gps_sats_pos = 6560
    set osd_home_dir_pos = 4110
    set osd_home_dist_pos = 4172
    set osd_flight_dist_pos = 439
    set osd_compass_bar_pos = 4138
    set osd_altitude_pos = 22774
    set osd_pid_roll_pos = 234
    set osd_pid_pitch_pos = 234
    set osd_pid_yaw_pos = 234
    set osd_debug_pos = 481
    set osd_debug2_pos = 234
    set osd_power_pos = 234
    set osd_pidrate_profile_pos = 234
    set osd_warnings_pos = 14665
    set osd_avg_cell_voltage_pos = 14796
    set osd_pit_ang_pos = 234
    set osd_rol_ang_pos = 234
    set osd_battery_usage_pos = 457
    set osd_disarmed_pos = 6442
    set osd_nheading_pos = 77
    set osd_up_down_reference_pos = 205
    set osd_ready_mode_pos = 6348
    set osd_nvario_pos = 278
    set osd_esc_tmp_pos = 407
    set osd_esc_rpm_pos = 234
    set osd_esc_rpm_freq_pos = 234
    set osd_rtc_date_time_pos = 234
    set osd_adjustment_range_pos = 234
    set osd_flip_arrow_pos = 6382
    set osd_core_temp_pos = 4153
    set osd_log_status_pos = 234
    set osd_stick_overlay_left_pos = 234
    set osd_stick_overlay_right_pos = 234
    set osd_stick_overlay_radio_mode = 2
    set osd_rate_profile_name_pos = 20
    set osd_pid_profile_name_pos = 374
    set osd_profile_name_pos = 234
    set osd_rcchannels_pos = 234
    set osd_camera_frame_pos = 35
    set osd_efficiency_pos = 234
    set osd_total_flights_pos = 234
    set osd_aux_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_goggle_voltage_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_vtx_voltage_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_bitrate_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_delay_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_distance_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_lq_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_goggle_dvr_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_vtx_dvr_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_warnings_pos = 234
    set osd_sys_vtx_temp_pos = 407
    set osd_sys_fan_speed_pos = 234
    set osd_stat_bitmask = 8521444
    set osd_profile = 3
    set osd_profile_1_name = -
    set osd_profile_2_name = -
    set osd_profile_3_name = -
    set osd_gps_sats_show_pdop = OFF
    set osd_displayport_device = AUTO
    set osd_rcchannels = -1,-1,-1,-1
    set osd_camera_frame_width = 24
    set osd_camera_frame_height = 11
    set osd_stat_avg_cell_value = OFF
    set osd_framerate_hz = 12
    set osd_menu_background = TRANSPARENT
    set osd_aux_channel = 1
    set osd_aux_scale = 200
    set osd_aux_symbol = 65
    set osd_craftname_msgs = OFF
    save
    ```

- RSSI is on AUX12 (no need to configure it)

- `set crashflip_rate = 25` auto turtle mode

- analog VTX setup. [geprc 1.6w](https://geprc.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/MATEN-5.8G-1.6W-VTX-IRC-Tramp.txt)

```
vtxtable bands 8
vtxtable channels 8
vtxtable band 1 BOSCAM_A A CUSTOM  5865 5845 5825 5805 5785 5765 5745 5725
vtxtable band 2 BOSCAM_B B CUSTOM  5733 5752 5771 5790 5809 5828 5847 5866
vtxtable band 3 BOSCAM_E E CUSTOM  5705 5685 5665 5645 5885 5905 5925 5945
vtxtable band 4 FATSHARK F CUSTOM  5740 5760 5780 5800 5820 5840 5860 5880
vtxtable band 5 RACEBAND R CUSTOM  5658 5695 5732 5769 5806 5843 5880 5917
vtxtable band 6 BAND_L   L CUSTOM  5362 5399 5436 5473 5510 5547 5584 5621
vtxtable band 7 BAND_U   U CUSTOM  5325 5348 5366 5384 5402 5420 5436 5456
vtxtable band 8 BAND_O   O CUSTOM  5474 5492 5510 5528 5546 5564 5582 5600
vtxtable powerlevels 4
vtxtable powervalues 25 200 600 1600
vtxtable powerlabels 25 200 600 1W6
```

```
set vtx_band = 5
set vtx_channel = 8
set vtx_power = 2
set vtx_low_power_disarm = UNTIL_FIRST_ARM
set vtx_freq = 5917
set vcd_video_system = PAL
```

- in-flight VTX power switching on a pot, used S2 (BF:aux4, radio:ch8). 0 means no change. I omit the last most powerful level.
  `<index> <aux_channel> <vtx_band> <vtx_channel> <vtx_power> <start_range> <end_range>`

```
vtx 0 3 0 0 1 900 1300
vtx 1 3 0 0 2 1300 1600
vtx 2 3 0 0 3 1600 2100

```

- in-flight OSD profile switching on a pot. I use S1, set it to CH10 (AUX6 in BF)

```
adjrange 0 0 5 900 2100 29 5 0 0
```

## filter tuning

- blackbox settings for filter tuning (2khz)

```
set blackbox_sample_rate = 1/2
set blackbox_disable_bat = ON
set blackbox_disable_mag = ON
set blackbox_disable_alt = ON
set blackbox_disable_rssi = ON
set blackbox_disable_acc = ON
set blackbox_disable_attitude = ON
set blackbox_disable_debug = ON
set blackbox_disable_servos = ON
set blackbox_disable_gps = ON
```

## runcam

[the shell](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:6830398)

## (not using) runcam camera control with PINIO

https://www.betaflight.com/docs/wiki/guides/current/Pinio-and-PinioBox

this FC has Bluetooth connectivity and PINIO1 is used to disable it on ARM.

default mappings https://github.com/betaflight/unified-targets/tree/master/configs/default

compile Betaflight with led_strip, enable led strip in configuration tab. set switch to `trigger` mode in edgetx. pad signal is inverted by adding 128 to 1 in box2, so triggering `user1` sets the LED_STRIP pad momentarily to LOW (0V)

original

```
resource LED_STRIP 1 A01
resource PINIO 1 C13
resource PINIO 2 C14
pinio_config = 129,1,1,1
pinio_box = 0,40,255,255
```

actual change

```
resource LED_STRIP 1 none
resource pinio 2 A01
set pinio_config = 129,129,1,1
set pinio_box = 0,40,255,255
save
```

## video source switcher control with servo output. 

the switcher's manual says it uses PWM 3.3V, 50Hz, duty 5-10%

```
resource
resource LED_STRIP 1 none
resource servo 1 A01
feature LED_STRIP
feature SERVO_TILT
feature -CHANNEL_FORWARDING
set servo_pwm_rate = 50
servo 0 1000 2000 1500 100 10
```

CH11 toggle, AUX7

## (not using) [softserial](https://www.betaflight.com/docs/wiki/guides/current/SoftSerial) for controlling Runcam
add `  -DUSE_SOFTSERIAL  -DUSE_CAMERA_CONTROL` flags to the firmware.
remap serial rx 1 resource to softserial 1 RX, BEEPER- to softserial 1 TX

```
resource
resource SERIAL_RX 1 A10
resource SERIAL_RX 1 none
resource SOFTSERIAL_RX 1 A10

resource BEEPER 1 C15
resource BEEPER 1 none
resource SOFTSERIAL_TX 1 C15
```

`camera power` in modes on AUX8

## rates

load `five33`, 533 rate profile (use Actual) as a starting point

```
set roll_rc_rate = 16
set pitch_rc_rate = 16
set yaw_rc_rate = 16
set roll_srate = 90
set pitch_srate = 90
set yaw_srate = 90
```

## PIDs and filters

```
# master
set gyro_lpf1_type = PT2
set gyro_lpf1_static_hz = 0
set dyn_notch_q = 600
set dyn_notch_min_hz = 130
set gyro_lpf1_dyn_min_hz = 0
set gyro_lpf1_dyn_max_hz = 650
set rpm_filter_weights = 100,20,100
set rpm_filter_q = 1000
set rpm_filter_min_hz = 125
set rpm_filter_fade_range_hz = 0

profile 2

# profile 2
set profile_name = test
set vbat_sag_compensation = 100
set anti_gravity_gain = 110
set crash_recovery = DISARM
set pidsum_limit = 1000
set pidsum_limit_yaw = 1000
set p_pitch = 56
set i_pitch = 100
set p_roll = 44
set i_roll = 79
set d_roll = 26
set f_roll = 100
set p_yaw = 44
set i_yaw = 79
set f_yaw = 100
set d_max_roll = 35
set motor_output_limit = 90
set thrust_linear = 20
set feedforward_smooth_factor = 30
set feedforward_jitter_factor = 9
set feedforward_max_rate_limit = 85
set dyn_idle_min_rpm = 40
set simplified_master_multiplier = 80
set simplified_d_gain = 110
set simplified_pi_gain = 125
set simplified_feedforward_gain = 105
set simplified_pitch_d_gain = 115
set simplified_pitch_pi_gain = 120
set tpa_rate = 50
set tpa_breakpoint = 1250

```


## references

- https://support.runcam.com/hc/en-us/articles/360014537794-RunCam-Device-Protocol